Project Setup Instructions Overview This document provides instructions
to set up local development environments for both the frontend and
backend of the project. Please ensure you have the necessary tools
installed as described below.

Prerequisites Node.js: Ensure Node.js is installed for both frontend and
backend package management (npm or yarn). Python: Required for backend
(if using a Python-based backend). Docker (Optional but recommended):
For containerizing and running the services in isolation. Git: For
version control. Database: Postgres, MySQL, or MongoDB as per the
project requirements. Frontend Setup Clone the Repository

bash Copy code git clone
https://github.com/your_username/your_frontend_repo.git cd
your_frontend_repo Install Dependencies Ensure you have Node.js and
npm/yarn installed.

bash Copy code npm install \# or if using yarn yarn install Environment
Variables Create a .env file at the root of your frontend directory.
Populate it with the necessary environment variables:

bash Copy code REACT_APP_API_URL=http://localhost:5000
REACT_APP_API_KEY=your_api_key_here Run the Frontend Start the frontend
development server:

bash Copy code npm start \# or using yarn yarn start The application
should now be running at http://localhost:3000.

Backend Setup Clone the Repository

bash Copy code git clone
https://github.com/your_username/your_backend_repo.git cd
your_backend_repo Create Virtual Environment (if using Python backend)

bash Copy code python -m venv venv source venv/bin/activate \# On
Windows: venv\\Scripts\\activate Install Dependencies

For Python (Flask/Django): bash Copy code pip install -r
requirements.txt For Node.js (Express): bash Copy code npm install Setup
Environment Variables Create a .env file at the root of the backend
directory and configure your variables:

bash Copy code DATABASE_URL=postgresql://user:password@localhost/dbname
SECRET_KEY=your_secret_key_here Setup the Database If you're using a
database, you might need to run migrations or seed the database.

For Django: bash Copy code python manage.py migrate python manage.py
createsuperuser \# If admin access is needed For Flask/SQLAlchemy: bash
Copy code flask db upgrade For Node.js/Sequelize: bash Copy code npx
sequelize db:migrate Run the Backend

For Python/Flask/Django: bash Copy code python manage.py runserver For
Node.js/Express: bash Copy code npm run dev The backend server should
now be running at http://localhost:5000.

Running Frontend and Backend Together Make sure both environments are
running on separate terminals:

Frontend: http://localhost:3000 Backend: http://localhost:5000 Docker
Setup (Optional) If you prefer using Docker for both frontend and
backend, follow these steps:

Build Docker Images

Frontend:

bash Copy code docker build -t frontend-image . Backend:

bash Copy code docker build -t backend-image . Run Docker Containers

Frontend: bash Copy code docker run -p 3000:3000 frontend-image Backend:
bash Copy code docker run -p 5000:5000 backend-image Now, both services
should be accessible at the corresponding URLs.

Troubleshooting Port Conflict: Ensure no other services are running on
ports 3000 or 5000. Missing Dependencies: Run npm install (for Node.js)
or pip install (for Python) if you encounter missing package errors.
